# Project 1 - Group 1 - Melbourne Property Price Insights - Understanding the influences upon Melbourne Property Prices

"Project 1 of the Data Visualisation &amp; Analytics Bootcamp"

Data Source: Data generated by Biju, A.A. (2023). Property sales: Melbourne City.
URL: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amalab182/property-salesmelbourne-city

Download & Accessed Date: 4 April 2023.

## Summary
This project is a comprehensive resource aimed at helping buyers and sellers understand the various influential factors behind property prices in Melbourne. 

For buyers, this project provides valuable insight into what key independent property attributes contribute to determining property prices. Furthermore, the project defines common living demographics and identifies how the price and availability of their relevant properties are spread across the region in relation to the CBD.

For sellers, this project can provide refined pricing estimates informed by the dependent variables outlined above. Furthermore, it evaluates the performance of Melbourne’s top real estate agencies across overall sale amount, location preferences, and sale price in relation to the estimated property value.


The project looks at the influences of the below variable on pricing
- Property Type (i.e., House, Townhouse, or Unit/Apartment)
- Land Size (m2)
- Building Size (m2)
- The Number of Rooms in a Property
- The Number of Bedrooms in a Property
- The Number of Parking Spot attached to a property
- The Year that the Property was built
- The Date of Property Sale
- Real Estate Agency of sale
- Location (Longitude, Latitude, Suburb, Distance from CBD)

The project addresses these influence via hypothesis testing, correlational relationships, linear regression models, geographical analysis, density and frequency observation and analysis for real estate agencies, and a real estate agencies performance sales performance and listing volume.

### Initial Data Cleaning
- File: initial_data_cleaning.ipynb
- Raw Data: Property Sales of Melbourne City.csv
- Cleaned Data: Properties_of_Melbourne_City_CLEANED.csv

### Question 1 - What are the main influences on Property Prices in Melbourne?
- File: Q1_data_exploration.ipynb

### Question 2 - Looking to buy in Melbourne? What location is best for your living demographic & your budget?
- File: Q2_data_exploration.ipynb

### Question 3 - Looking to sell in Melbourne? Which real estate agency will get you the best value for your property?
- File: Q3_data_exploration.ipynb

### Presentation Slides
- File: Project 1 Presentation Slides.pdf
